our last topic of this video is generic
methods I probably should have warned
you one of the early segments in this
video series that with a name like
syntax one this is not the most exciting
lecture and in fact these three videos
this one some text to instant text three
you know they're useful but they're not
like oh wow that's beautiful then we're
just like okay that's what the Java
designer has decided to do so sorry it
seems a little arbitrary but kind of
learning so in this case what we're
gonna do in order to understand generic
methods is we're gonna create a class
called map helper that's gonna have two
methods one of them is gonna be called
get and that method takes a map 61b
and a key and it returns the value of
corresponding to this key in the map if
it exists otherwise it will return null
now that's unlike the array Maps native
get method the thing actually built into
it which will crash if the key doesn't
exist in fact if we look at a Rhema
we'll see that get it just gets the
index and if it doesn't exist it'll try
and return the minus one item and it'll
crash so map helper is gonna try and do
better now this is terrible class design
really we should do is fix your array
map class but for the sake of argument
just for pedagogical reasons we're gonna
build it this way so that we can do the
next one we're gonna write will be
called max key and it will find the max
key in a map 61b
so let's start with the get method so in
this case have a little exercise and
we'll just jump right in so we go to map
helper class we can delete these comment
marks and this will now set up this test
we're gonna use test get to make sure
that get works but we haven't ridden get
yet so of course the test does not
compile saying doesn't exist now if we
look at what's going on here
it looks like map helper get is supposed
to be a static method because we're
convenient using the class name so let's
say public static and then we'll think
okay what's it supposed to do it looks
like it returns an integer and it's
called get and it takes in a rain or it
takes a map 61v
of strings two integers now we'll call
that I don't know string integer map and
then we will do a key okay or not a key
K a stream key and then we'll do some
code and return something and
get there in a bit now before we even
get there they actually the interesting
part of this is not the code it's the
signature so this code right now you'll
notice it's compiling but this get
method doesn't do what it's supposed to
it's supposed to work on any map 61b
you give me any map 61b and it should
work it shouldn't be a string integer so
how do we do that well maybe we try and
do something like V K V K but we'll
notice that it doesn't compile it's red
and in this case it's saying I don't
know you mean by V okay I mean these are
just arbitrary symbols as far as Java
cares I just wrote potato and like sauce
all right it's hard to matter which ones
which okay I'll pick some different
words how about it may as well be
vanadium and ketchup right I think those
are just meaningless symbols so the
question is how do I actually get that
to work well our trick before as we go
up to the class declaration and we put I
don't know ketchup vanadium up there but
the problem with this approach is that
this is this is just not the right idea
remember the way these work is that when
someone instantiate same app helper
they're gonna pass along actual type
arguments that will go and fill these in
but nobody's ever going to instantiate a
map helper we're not doing new map
helper string integer or something that
doesn't make sense right we don't want
to do that so we're gonna try and do
here is avoid the need to make the class
generic instead we're gonna make the
method generic so it's actually a pretty
easy thing we do here instead of putting
it up here we just stick it right after
the word static and now it'll work the
way we want so for the purposes of this
single method this ketchup and vanadium
it applies only to this tiny scope and
that's very different okay just to
compare and contrast with a ray map
where the kV goes up at the top and it's
shared by the entire program everywhere
here it applies to only that single
method now I don't like ketchup and
vanadium so I'll go with kv v k v k all
right
so that is our get method and now we'll
write it so at this point I need to
actually get
value back so I can do the following we
will do if SCIM contains Kiki then we
will return sim get key we need to add
some parentheses and if it doesn't
contain it we'll just return null and
then here we'll run our test that's a
very terrible test because it doesn't
actually test the case where the item
doesn't exist but let's run it anyway so
this is map helper
let me run our test and it passes I
don't let's make the test even better so
let's do map helper get in this case and
we'll do an assert equals null that okay
so this will also check the null case
just make the test a little better so we
run it and it seems to work fine good
okay so that's the test kit method so
again the special thing here was making
a single method generic as opposed to an
entire class so now let's write test max
key so in this case we're gonna move on
to well actually I'll debrief real quick
and then we'll do the program so the key
point here is that I set up the type
parameter definitions in the actual
method declaration I put them after the
word static and in this case desert is
just who knows what and it's and here
the difference is that rather than
specifying at runtime which types we
want we don't put map helper string
integer it automatically infers it from
the type of object passed so that's kind
of nice now you're probably getting a
little dizzy about types you won't have
to go too much deeper than this in 61b
but if you're curious you know there's
plenty more to learn about type so
there's crazy things that can happen and
let's see just one more for now so in
the next case we're gonna do max key so
again it's an exercise you can try and
so now let's go and do it so the max key
I'm again gonna uncomment this and I had
it commented out because it won't
compile otherwise because we do not have
a max key method so what might that look
like
well max key is supposed to return the
max of all keys and if we look at what
it does okay well again we'll do
hard-coded string integer trick again at
first and we'll say okay so we have a
method it's static because we're
invoking it using the class name it
returns something of type string the
method is named max key it takes an
array or a map 61b
of string integers and we'll call this
thing map string integer okay I don't
know what we called it sim before
whatever
okay so in this case this code right
here if we return null should compile
everywhere but again as before we don't
want it to be for only strings and
integers so we already know how to deal
with that so we can simply say K V in
this case the string is our K this is K
V and we should be good to go
so it's try writing our code and we'll
do the usual stuff you might imagine so
here we want to get back a list we need
to go through all the keys so we'll get
a list of keys which will be the key
list which is equal to m SI dot list
it's a terrible name now cuz it's you
know just a map so I'll call it map
single letter variable names aren't
necessarily great but maps so we get a
map we get the what we call the same
keys and then we will go through that
key list and we'll say well key largest
equals key list get 0 and then we'll
just go through each element of the key
list actually we can just do for K in
key list if k k key list if K is greater
than largest and we'll say largest
equals K and we rendered that same issue
we had before which is you cannot
compare using greater than arbitrary
objects also a returned largest so we've
already used the we've already run into
this issue before and what do we do we
said K dot compare to largest is greater
than 0 still though compared to does not
work with case and that's true even
though we're giving it an array
from string integer strings have it
compare to but is not working here and
the reason is that think about the
compiler all the compiler knows is that
somebody is gonna give me Ches and maybe
somebody gives me dogs and they don't
have a compare to method so what we need
to do is somehow deal with that fact so
ordinarily what we would do is we would
specify somehow that this is a
comparable or something and so the
syntax for that in Java is we say K not
just K but K extends maybe are
comparable now that would be okay except
for the fact that are comparable is
something you and I made up it's not
part of this package so we need to use
the built in Java comparable class our
interface now of course comparable
itself needs to have a generic type
parameter specified so this is where it
gets a little messy so if you you you
don't just want things that are
comparable but you want K's that are
comparable to other K's okay so we end
up with this rather ugly declaration for
our method but in this case it should
work perfectly fine I'll talk more about
it in a moment so just see if it works
first and then we'll discuss in a little
more detail can we run it one test
passed actually want to run all tests
just to make sure we didn't mess
something up I think I ran array math so
in this case we ran both of our tests
and it works swimmingly
so let's debrief a little more what this
is about in the next video